Howdy! I'll be right pleased to ferry you across the river. How much does it 
cost? The toll is a mere five dollars per wagon. Considering how deep this 
river is, that's a bargain! Do you have any advice? Well, first of all, let me 
take you across the Green River. After that, keep following the water until 
you get to Fort Bridger. The trail is pretty clear--can't miss 
it! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long. Welcome, friends! You're getting close to 
the promised land! I'll take you across the river when you're ready. How much 
does it cost? No charge--it's my job to help you on your way to Great Salt 
Lake City. Do you have any advice? The canyons just this side of the Salt Lake 
Valley are the most difficult part of the trip. Take it easy and be 
careful! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon?

Welcome to the lands of the Shoshoni. I am Washakie, a chief of my people. We 
have been friends of the Americans for many years. Tell me more. The Mormon 
ferry is a good way to cross the river, but you have to pay--unless you are 
Mormons, too. But even if you pay, it is worth it. Do you have any advice? If 
you do not want to take the ferry, some of the young men of my village will 
help you cross. It is usually best to caulk your wagon and float. The river 
can be very deep. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Can you help us find a doctor? Why do you need one? My Pa's sick, and we may 
not be able to travel until he gets better. We've been pushing too hard and 
our health has suffered. Do you have any advice? When Pa can travel again, 
we'll go at a slower pace. Maybe you ought to do the 
same. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, which way do you reckon we ought to go? Tell me more. Well, unless I'm 
mistaken, the north road, going off to the right, takes us to Fort Hall and 
Oregon. The road off to the left heads into Utah and a shortcut to Californy. 
But I could be wrong about that. Do you have any advice? Well, I don't rightly 
know. I hear the trail into Mormon country is fraught with difficulty. But the 
path along the Snake River's no picnic, either. I'm afeared that whatever we 
do, there's trouble ahead. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Hello. I'm Sophie Billings. Now, will you take a look at that? All those 
people carving their names in a rock out here in the middle of nowhere! Tell 
me more. Don't think we've had much of a chance to talk. My husband and I are 
from right outside Memphis, Tennessee. Free black folks aren't any too welcome 
there right now. That's why we're goin' west. Do you have any advice? My 
brother Gordon--he went out to Oregon last year--wrote and told me about some 
people in his wagon train whose animals all died after drinking some bad 
water. I'd be real careful about that if I were 
you. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Halt! You are Norte-Americanos, are you not? I am Captain Juan Santayana. This 
is Mexican soil. You must have passports. We don't have passports. All of the 
land south of the forty-second parallel and west of the one-hundred-and-sixth 
meridian belongs to Mexico. Your intentions here had better be honorable. Do 
you have any advice? If you're going to Oregon, be on your way immediately. 
Oregon is not Mexican land. But if you are going to California, you must have 
the approval of the Mexican government to settle there. I will arrange for 
passports. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy, emigrants! Welcome to my fort! I'm Jim Bridger, co-proprietor of this 
oasis in the wilderness! Tell me more. I hope you find everything you want 
here. We got a well-provisioned trading post, a first-rate blacksmith, and 
even some fresh draft animals if you need them. Do you have any advice? Feel 
free to stay awhile--a few days, even a week or so if you like! You'd do well 
to rest up a bit before heading out again. The roughest part of the trail 
still lies ahead! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Will you look at this? Ain't it a shame that they had to go burn down this 
fort! Tell me more. There's been a dispute betwixt the U.S. government and the 
Mormons, and the Mormons burned down their own fort to keep the federal troops 
from getting a hold of it! Do you have any advice? Well, I suppose we could 
look around through the ruins to see if we can find anything worthwhile. But, 
then again, maybe we'd be best off just getting a move 
on. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

My family and I travel with forty other families to the valley of the Great 
Salt Lake to seek religious freedom. Tell me more. As you know, back east, 
Mormons are persecuted. In Utah, we're joining together to build a new 
community, changing the desert into farm land. Do you have any advice? If 
you're heading for California, don't take the Hastings Cutoff through the 
Great Salt Lake Desert. My relatives in the Mormon city have written me 
letters telling me of terrible misery along that route. It's a shortcut, all 
right--to your death! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy, folks. Welcome to New Fort Bridger, just recently rebuilt. I'm 
Lieutenant Cassius Fisk. Tell me more. Well, the Mormons, who owned and ran 
the old fort after they bought Jim Bridger out, burned it down during a 
disagreement with the government. But the Army has now taken over the site and 
built a brand new fort. Do you have any advice? If you're going to Oregon, 
take the road heading north. That's the best way to go to California, too, 
unless you want to visit Great Salt Lake City. That's a good place to get 
fresh animals for the remainder of your journey. To do that, head 
southwest. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy. If you want to cross the Thomas Fork, my bridge is the only good way to 
do it. Costs just one dollar. Tell me more. Ain't nobody forcing you to take 
the bridge, but you'd be a dad-blamed fool not to. This stream may look 
shallow, but it's as mean as a grizzly. Do you have any advice? Yeah. Pay your 
dollar and go across. You're holding up those other people behind 
you. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Heh, heh, heh, look at the way them folks is struggling to get down the Big 
Hill. Half of them don't know what the heck they're doing. Tell me more. Big 
Hill is one of the worst places you're liable to come across. It's bad enough 
when the weather's dry, but--whoo ee!--when it's wet and raining, you couldn't 
give me all the greenbacks in Philadelphia to try it. Do you have any 
advice? When the weather's bad, don't even think of going down a hill like 
this. Wait until it dries up a might. And be sure to take precautions--like 
using one of them fallen pine logs over there as an anchor on your wagon. 
Makes it less likely to break away. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Come on in, pilgrim! I'm Thomas Smith, but most folks call me 'Peg Leg' 
because of this here wooden appendage of mine. Tell me more. They make a big 
deal out of the fact that I had to amputate my own leg after a bad accident. 
Well, there weren't no one else around to do it, so I had to do it myself. 
Either that or die of gangrene. Do you have any advice? If you're heading for 
California, wait until you get across the Raft River before breaking off from 
the main trail and going southwest. If you're going to the Willamette Valley, 
follow the Snake River. Lots of good-tasting salmon if the season's 
right! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Good to see you, friend. I'm the Reverend Paul Grigsby, originally hailing 
from Schenectady, New York. Tell me more. I came out here to the wilderness to 
found a mission among the Indians, but my wife Cecelia, God rest her soul, 
died of cholera back along the Platte. And now my colleagues have all given up 
the calling to go hunting gold in the California hills. Do you have any 
advice? Keep your faith while those all around you sink into despair. You 
know, this used to be a trading post run by a fellow name of 'Peg Leg' Smith. 
He's gone now and left this building here to rot all by itself. I almost feel 
a kinship with it. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

My, but aren't the Soda Springs pretty! I think of all the things we've seen 
so far, this is the most amazing. Tell me more. The springs seem to spout at 
regular intervals. Quite a wonder of nature! You read about such things, but 
you never think you'll actually get to see them yourself. Do you have any 
advice? It feels good just to rest and not be on our feet walking. When I get 
to our new home, I'll have a soft feather bed and never sleep in a wagon 
again! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Sure is nice to take a rest now and then. My folks figured this journey would 
be hard work, but it's been more than we counted on! Tell me more. One of my 
regular jobs is to find fuel for the fire. Sometimes it's hard to find enough 
wood, so I store extra pieces in a box under the wagon. On the prairie I 
gathered buffalo chips to burn when there wasn't any wood. And sage works, 
too. Do you have any advice? Mama says that a lot of folks on the trail wind 
up getting sick with scurvy because they ain't been eating enough fruits and 
vegetables. We have a big keg of pickles and eat two of them every week. Mama 
says that's just enough to keep the scurvy away. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

Buen dia. My name is Francisco Ruez. I used to be a Mexican citizen, but after 
the war, when the land south of here became American territory, I became an 
American, too. Tell me about this place. The road that goes off to the 
southwest here is the Hudspeth Cutoff. It is very rugged, but it provides a 
shortcut to California. Do you have any advice? If I were you, I wouldn't take 
the cutoff. Too difficult, and the savings in time is not so great. Stay on 
the main trail, no matter if you are going to California or 
Oregon. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

I am Shoshoni. My name is Young Woman Who Sings. Tell me more. When wagons 
first started coming, the Shoshoni did not mind. We even found it good to 
trade game and fish with the travelers and help them cross the rivers. Do you 
have any advice? Now there are too many white men and too little land for 
grazing. Tell your people to stop coming. They are a burden to the land and to 
the Shoshoni. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

I hear there's mountain sheep around here. Enough water, too, but hardly a 
stick of wood. Thank heaven for Fort Hall! Tell me more. I'm real sorry that 
soon we'll be saying goodbye to Cousin Miles and all the folks heading for 
California. Do you have any advice? I'm going to spend as much time as I can 
with my friends and relations until we reach the California Road. You consider 
doing the same. Might not ever see them again! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

Fort Hall here is a busy place! The wide stretches of meadow grass here are 
just what our tired animals need. Tell me more. As for me, I'll fix up the 
wagon leaks. Amanda's real anxious to wash all the clothes and linens in one 
of those clear streams. Do you have any advice? I suggest we stay here for a 
couple days to rest up, restock our supplies, and learn everything we can 
about the trail ahead. I hear that the next stretch may be the 
roughest! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

We are Bannock, close friends of the Paiute and Shoshoni. I am Bear Tooth. My 
people will gladly trade with you here and on the road ahead. Tell me 
more. Beware of our enemies, the Blackfoot. They do not tolerate trespassers--
neither white men nor other Indians. But as long as you stay on the trail, you 
have little chance of running into any Blackfoot war parties. Do you have any 
advice? The depth of this river changes greatly with the season. Check it 
carefully before deciding the best way to cross. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

Well, it's good to see a friendly face. Getting hard to locate anyone willing 
to have much to do with me anymore, though for the life of me, I don't know 
why. Tell me more. Why, just the other day I ran across some fella I hadn't 
seen for a couple weeks , and he says to me, 'What, you ain't dead yet?' Dad-
blamed smart-alecky varmint. Do you have any advice? I hear that after we 
cross this here river people got to choose whether they're going to California 
or Oregon. But it don't really matter. You can still get to either place 
further on down the trail. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, friend, this is where we part. One road leads to Oregon and the other to 
California. Tell me more. Not much else to say, I reckon. Except I understand 
both paths carry their share of burdens--dry stretches, mountains, and the 
like. Do you have any advice? No, except I wish you all the best! Take good 
care of yourself. Write us just as soon as you reach your new 
home! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Says here that this place is called Caldron Linn. Strange name. But it seems 
to fit, what with all them steep lava gorges, twisting and writhing 
around. Tell me more. So much water down there in the Snake River--but so hard 
to get to! I'd hate to have to go down into that gorge. At least not more than 
once, if we have to. Do you have any advice? We've got many miles of desert 
before Oregon, so be sure to fill your water kegs at the 
crossing! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Hello. My name's Fabiola Ferrier. We've just been over to get a look at 
Shoshoni Falls. Tell me more. You hear the distant roar? That's the sound of 
the falls, a few miles north of here. We decided to take a day off from our 
journey to see them. A wonderful sight! Do you have any advice? Oh, do take 
time to give thanks for the beauty that surrounds us. It lightens the spirit 
and eases the way. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

They call this Rock Creek. I doesn't look like much. Couldn't be more than a 
foot or two deep. Tell me more. Pretty narrow, too. Still, we've seen our 
share of deceptive creeks and rivers, haven't we? Can't be too careful. Do you 
have any advice? Well, I suppose we could ford it, but perhaps I should have 
my oldest boy Ted wade out to the middle of the creek to see how deep it is 
and what the bottom's like. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Hey, wagon-people! Look here! I have some very good salmon. Maybe you want to 
trade? Maybe. Tell me more. My name is Badger Keeper. I was given this name 
four years ago when I found a young badger and raised it as a pet. My father 
says I should get a new name soon. Do you have any advice? We could trade. My 
salmon are large and fresh. I just caught them an hour ago. Do you have any 
blankets? My mother would like to have a new 
blanket. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Ain't that a sight! There ain't nothing like that back east! No, there 
isn't. My wife was reading our guidebook earlier, and she says this place is 
known as Thousand Springs. Well, I can see why! Do you have any advice? Well, 
I reckon we oughtn't be doing too much sight-seeing, not when we's still got 
so much further to go. We'd best get a move on. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

Hola! Habla español? Or do you speak English? Do you want to trade? Tell me 
more. I am Woman Who Came Back. I was captive of Paiute renegades for many 
years before I escaped and returned to my Bannock village. The renegades 
treated me like a slave, but I learned to speak some Spanish while among 
them. Do you have any advice? I have dried fish to trade. Dried fish do not 
taste as good as fresh ones, but they will keep for a long time. I also have 
mocassins. I am known as the best maker of mocassins in my 
village. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, it looks like we're going to have to make a choice here. Tell me 
more. We can either cross the Snake River here, using those three islands sort 
of like 'steppin' stones' across the river, or we can avoid crossing and just 
follow the south bank of the river. Do you have any advice? Well, I hear that 
the south route is right sandy and rough. On the north route, we got to cross 
the Snake twice, but we also go past Fort Boise. I think I prefer the north 
route myself. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

You ready to cross? Not quite--still thinking. Fording's the usual way to 
cross here, going from one island to another until you get to the other side. 
But a lot depends on how deep the water is right now. Do you have any 
advice? Well, maybe we should check the current conditions a little more 
closely before we decide what to do. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Be careful there! You might scald yerself something fierce! Tell me 
more. These here hot springs are a natural wonder! Water just bubbling up from 
the earth, hot enough to cook in! Do you have any advice? Sit and rest a 
spell. Might as well take advantage of this miracle of nature and do some 
cooking without having to build a fire! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Looks like this is another one of those places where people feel the need to 
go carving their names in the rock. Tell me more. Well, you'd think that 
people would have better things to do! But I suppose they're just so proud of 
themselves for coming all this way that they feel they need to leave a record 
of their accomplishment! Do you have any advice? It won't be long before we 
reach Fort Boise. We should be sure to stop there and buy supplies, at least 
those of us who need them. It would also be a good place to rest up, maybe do 
some wagon repairs. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Every night, even though I ache from the day's toils, my head is filled with 
dreams of the rich farm land of the far west. Tell me more. I'll build myself 
a fine, handsome homestead--and I'm certain I'll be rich and prosperous within 
five years. Do you have any advice? Now is no time to give up. Nor is it time 
to make any serious mistakes! We're more than three-quarters of the way 
there! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, if that don't beat all! We come all this way, looking forward to this 
fort as a place to buy supplies, and find it abandoned, falling to 
pieces! Tell me more. Looks like there's been a flood here, like maybe the 
river water's risen up and damaged the buildings. Do you have any advice? We 
ought not to stay for long. Ain't nothing for us here, and they say there's 
been trouble with the local Indians of late. Let's get 
going! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Are you ready to cross the river? I will help you if you want me to. In return 
I want some supplies, maybe some clothing to take back to my village. Tell me 
more. I am Strong Hand. I am known many days' journey all around for having 
great strength. No one has beaten me at wrestling, not since I was a young 
boy. Do you have any advice? If you want me to help you cross the river, say 
so. We can deal. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

It says right here in our guidebook: 'You must hire an Indian to pilot you at 
the crossings of the Snake River, it being dangerous if not perfectly 
understood.' Tell me more. My husband insists on crossing without a guide. I 
don't think it wise, but that's just his way. Do you have any advice? Well, if 
it were up to me, I'd hire one of these Indians here to help. They look like 
they know what they're doing. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy, friends! I'll ferry you across the Snake River if you like. How much is 
the toll? Don't cost too much--just eight dollars per wagon. Now, I know that 
sounds high, but this is a mighty dangerous river. And my ferry's the safest 
way to get across! Do you have any advice? Well, you can take your chances 
floating across yourself if you want to, maybe hiring one of these Bannocks to 
help. But, just between you and me, I wouldn't do it. Come on, pay up and I'll 
take you. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy, folks. I'm Lieutenant James Wilkinson of the Fourth Cavalry. Tell me 
more. This area's gotten mighty dangerous of late. There's been some trouble 
with the Indians lately, some outrages committed by both sides. There used to 
be a ferry here, but they high-tailed it. The Bannocks who used to help folks 
cross here have left, too. Do you have any advice? Get across the river as 
best you can and keep moving. Be on your guard. This trouble should pass 
before too long, but until then, it's kind of risky out here on the 
trail. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Looks like there's a split in the trail here. Tell me more. I heard some folks 
talking back there a few minutes ago, saying this place is called East Cow 
Hollow. Sure is a funny name for a place. Do you have any advice? Well, the 
road heading north is surely the one we ought to take to get to the Willamette 
Valley. The others will take us back eastward. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

Since crossing the Snake near Fort Boise, it's been just rough terrain and 
desert. Tell me more. Dust deeper each day--six inches at times. No tracks, 
just clouds of dust. Many cattle choked on the dust after swimming the river, 
then bled and died. Do you have any advice? We can't waste any time getting 
through this awful country. I hear there's another river not too much further 
ahead, and the terrain changes soon after that. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So 
long.

I heard someone say that this is called the Malheur River. We'll soon see how 
appropriate that name is. What do you mean? Well, I know a little French, and 
unless I'm mistaken, 'Malheur' means 'bad luck.' But I think it's extremely 
good luck to happen upon a river with good water in such horribly dry 
country. Do you have any advice? I suppose there must be some reason for 
naming it the 'bad luck' river. Maybe it will prove to be a difficult 
crossing. We should be especially careful. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, this here is Farewell Bend. Tell me more. They call it that because it's 
here that we say good-bye to the Snake River, which we've followed now for 
hundreds of miles, ever since Fort Hall. Do you have any advice? We're getting 
close to the end of our journey, but we still got some mighty rough country up 
ahead of us--lots of hills to go up and down. No time to slack off 
now! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

This valley of the Grande Ronde is the most beautiful sight I've seen in 
months. Tell me more. Water and grass in abundance! And if this valley is so 
fine, the Willamette must be twice as fine! We'll be sitting pretty in our new 
homestead! Do you have any advice? This would make a good place to stay a day 
or two. The animals could use the rest, and there's plenty of water and 
grazing for them. Quite a relief after that last steep hill and the dry, 
fearsome country we just passed through! Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

We will help you cross the river in exchange for goods in trade. Tell me 
more. I speak your language well, do I not? I learned from people at the 
mission several days' journey north of here. Do you have any advice? Let us 
help you cross. The river can be difficult at times, especially after heavy 
rains. What do you have to offer in exchange for this 
help? Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Howdy, folks. I'm Private Walter Davis of the Fourth Cavalry. Tell me 
more. This here is the Grande Ronde River. Used to be you could count on 
Indians being here to help you cross, but not no more. Too much tension now 
between them an' the settlers. Do you have any advice? Before you cross, you 
can stay here an' camp with us if you like. I'm sure the sergeant won't 
mind. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

This here Emigrant Hill, as they call it, poses a bit of a quandary. Tell me 
more. I hear the trail splits shortly after the hill. The road going off to 
the right leads to the Whitman Mission and Fort Walla Walla. It's the long 
route, but it's good to take if you're in need of supplies, repairs, or a 
doctor. Do you have any advice? I'd prefer taking the short route, straight 
ahead. But we ought to see what the other folks in the wagon train want to 
do. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Well, now we got to figure out how to get down this hill. Tell me more. I sure 
hate these downhill runs. Wouldn't think it, but they're lots worse than 
uphills. Do you have any advice? I figure I'll just lock my wagon wheels and 
hope for the best. Wish I had a long rope or something. If I had one, I'd 
attach it to something at the top of the hill and use it to ease the wagon 
down gradual-like. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

Hey there. I hope you folks weren't thinking of heading up north of here on 
the old trail. Why not? Well, ain't nothing to go to up there no more. The 
Whitman Mission's been in ruins ever since the Indian attack, and Fort Walla 
Walla's now abandoned because of the Indian troubles. Do you have any 
advice? Just keep heading west. It's the shortest way to get to The Dalles, 
anyway. You should be all right as long as you stick to the main 
road. Pardon? Pardon? Pardon? So long.

In the week that followed, they drifted further apart. Their friendship had been destroyed by one night of passion. Their innocence replaced with guilt. Why had they allowed themselves to completely lose control? Had it meant anything at all to Cade, or was it merely a moment of desire? Was it the first time for him? It shouldn't make any difference, but it did. Cade was the man of her dreams, but was Mary the woman of his? Had he given himself to the wrong woman? Was that why he was so remorseful?
She stabbed the spade into the flowerbed and gazed off into the distance. It was such a beautiful ranch, so quiet and secluded. A hawk made a wide swing across the grassland and suddenly dived, jerking up at the last second, its great wings straining as it pumped back into the air with added weight. A rabbit writhed in its claws, screaming in terror.
She shuddered. One moment things could be so tranquil and then the next... She sighed. It depended on how a person looked at it. For the rabbit, it was a bad day. For the hawk and her young, it was a good day.
A shadow fell over her and she turned into the sun, shading her eyes with a gloved hand. Cade was standing over her, a puzzled expression on his face as he contemplated her work.
"What are you doing?"
"Digging up these bulbs. I noticed they were getting crowded. I'm going to move some of them over there." She indicated a cultivated area not far from where she was working. "I hope you don't mind."
He rubbed his jaw and stared absently at the spot. "Not at all." He glanced around. "As a matter of fact, the place could use a little sprucing up."
Was he hinting that she should give more attention to the exterior of the house? She pushed away from the ground stiffly and rubbed at the sore muscles in her back while she surveyed the house. Actually, it could stand a good washing and a paint job, but surely he didn't expect her to do that.
She slapped at a mosquito on her arm and glanced up at him. "I didn't expect you so soon. I'll go in and start supper." She removed her gloves, wondering about the slow flush that was darkening his somber features.
He jabbed his hands in his pockets and looked away.
"You haven't been in to see Mary for a while. Why don't we go out for pizza tonight? We could stop by and pick her up."
"Why don't you go in by yourself?"
He glanced at her sharply and regarded her thoughtfully for a few moments.
"Does friendship mean so little to you that you can toss it aside so easily?"
She stared at him. "Mary and I aren't fighting."
He opened his mouth to speak and then shut it again, shaking his head. He squatted and took some of the freshly dug soil in his hand, crushing the lumps and letting the dust run through his fingers.
If he wanted to see Mary, why did he have to drag her along? Of course, after the other night... She slapped her gloves together to remove some of the mud.
"You don't have to feel obligated to take me everywhere you go. If you want to visit Mary, why don't you go see her?" She turned and headed for the house without waiting for an answer. Her eyes were filling with tears and she didn't want him to see. She jerked the kitchen door open, not realizing he was close until she heard his voice behind her.
"If you're not fighting, why don't you go see her?" He dodged the screen door as it narrowly missed his forehead. "Are you angry with me again?"
"No." She reached for the doorknob and he grabbed her arm.
"I've said something to upset you." It was a statement, not a question.
Her eyes were probably bloodshot and tears were beginning to blur her vision. She averted her face. "I told you. I'm not angry." She tried to sound convincing, but her voice faltered.
"Then why are you crying?" His hand still held her arm captive.
"I'm not crying."
"Then look at me." She could feel his intent gaze on her.
"I don't feel good." She reached for the door with the other hand. "If you want to go into town for pizza, please don't feel obligated to invite me. I'm your housekeeper, remember? I work for you. I'm your employee." She pushed the door open and hurried to the sink. "Would you like some coffee or something?"
He stared at her with a perplexed expression and finally shook his head. "I'm going to go wash up. We'll talk when you cool off and get yourself together."
He strode off into the other room.
She stared after him. Maybe she was reacting emotionally. The best thing to do was to calmly tell him she would rather not go. That would leave him free to go alone. But she didn't want him to go. Nor did she want him to see Mary.
When he returned to the kitchen, she was still staring absently into the refrigerator. She glanced up as he walked across the floor and poured a cup of coffee. He met her gaze.
"You still don't want to go?"
"No, I'm not in the mood. Why don't you go on alone?"
He sipped the hot coffee and lowered the cup, staring down into the dark liquid.
"No, go ahead and fix something if you want. I thought you might like an evening off."
She avoided his eyes by examining the contents of the refrigerator. "We have a lot of left-overs and Scruffy is getting ridiculously fat."
"Left-overs are fine." He swirled the coffee in his cup. "Speaking of Scruffy, have you seen him lately?"
She pulled a couple of bowls out of the refrigerator. "No, but there's nothing odd about a Tom cat wandering off for a few days. He's done it before and I'm sure he'll do it again."
He nodded, setting his cup on the counter. "While you're heating that stuff up, I think I'll go out and lock Princess in the barn. I think she's ready to foal and it looks like a storm is brewing out there."
With that, he exited the kitchen.
She was setting the last bowl on the table when he returned. He came through the door, his hands behind him and a smug look on his face.
"I have some bad news."
She eyed him suspiciously. "What?"
"Scruffy isn't a Tom cat." He pulled his hands from behind his back and held them out to her. Cupped in his hand was a tiny black kitten, its eyes still closed.
She gasped, reaching out to touch the kitten. "Oh, how darling." She glanced up at him. "Is it the only one?"
He shook his head, a wry smile twisting his lips. "Five more."
"Oh my gosh." She delicately plucked the kitten from his hand and cuddled it against her cheek. "It's so soft."
He watched her with an amused expression as she petted the kitten and talked to it. Finally he reached out his hand. "I'd better put it back before Scruffy comes looking for it."
She reluctantly relinquished the kitten and watched him retrace his steps to the barn. He hated cats, but he carried the kitten all the way to the kitchen and back simply to show her one. She smiled wistfully and turned back to the table. Why did he try so hard to cover his feelings?
The kittens were a catalyst to crumbling the walls of tension that had been built between them. Over supper they talked of the expected foal, the ranch, and everything but why they hadn't talked much for the last four days. Finally she cleared the table while he sat back with a cup of coffee. After she washed several dishes, she heard a chair scrape the floor behind her. Cade was beside her, lifting the towel from the hook and a pan from the dish rack.
She caught her breath. "You don't have to do that. That's what you pay me to do. You've worked all day long. Why don't you sit down and rest and I'll bring you a piece of pie."
He lifted a quizzical brow. "You want me to get out of your hair?"
Her cheeks felt warm. "No, I... It's just that I should be doing this."
He nodded, continuing to dry the pan. "What were you doing all day today?"
She grinned. "Not working as hard as you, that's for sure." She made a face at him. "How's that for squirming out of a leading question?"
It was the first time she saw him break down and indulge in a heart felt smile. She gazed up at him, completely disarmed by his smile, and yet somehow proud that she had been the one to put it there.
"All the same," he said, "You're entitled to a little free time yourself. You shouldn't be cooped up with a sour old man every evening."
"You're not old." She caught her breath and glanced up at him with wide eyes. "I'm sorry. You're not sour either."
His mouth twisted into what might have passed for a smile. "Just a little taciturn, huh?" He tucked the pan into the cabinet.
"You don't seem to be very happy. Sometimes I wonder if you..." Her voice trailed off. Why was he looking at her like that?
"If I have any feelings at all?" His eyes were dark and distressed. He reached out, gently slipping a hand behind her neck. His thumb caressed her jaw as he gazed down into her face. "You still wonder, Cindy - Even after the other night?" His voice was soft and husky. He cupped her face in his hands and leaned down, brushing her lips softly with his. His lips were warm and inviting, and she involuntarily responded to their query. If only he would always be this way.
Tenderly, he gripped her shoulders, pulling her close. His hands slid down her back to her waist and stopped, drawing her against his warm body. Her arms slid around his neck of their own volition and she pressed close to him passionately returning his affection.
He lifted her into his arms and turned toward the family room door. She squirmed and he lowered her to the floor. She dodged his arms.
"Cade, I haven't finished the dishes."
He frowned. "You're off the clock now." And with that he swept her into his arms and claimed her lips.
She tried to resist the desire that ransacked her body, but his lips and hands broke down every wall she built - shut off every avenue of escape until she no longer wanted to escape... until she no longer questioned his love. Why resist? What could happen that hadn't already happened? He loved her and she loved him. What was more important?
"Russ." She whispered softly as she slipped her arms around his neck and returned his passionate kiss. He lifted her into his arms and carried her to his bedroom, gently lowering her to the bed. This time there was no hesitation, no rush. Everything was going to be all right now.
But nothing was different when she woke in his arms hours later. Again she had abandoned morality and shamed herself in front of him. Why had she thought he loved her? He was merely devastatingly accomplished at lovemaking - sex. Nothing more. She had allowed herself to fall into the role of mistress. At least he had the decency to remind her she was off the clock and therefore not a whore - or was she?
She slipped from his bed, feeling sick to her stomach. This was the last time. From now on she would tell him to keep his hands to himself. It wasn't his fault. Hadn't she been entirely accommodating? How could he know she had become serious about him? As far as he knew, she made a habit of this kind of activity. Could a man tell when he was her first?
Her one saving grace was the fact that the next morning he didn't act as though nothing had happened. As he sat sipping his coffee after breakfast he glanced at her.
"I missed you this morning."
She searched his face suspiciously but there was no leer in his expression. The statement was simple and honest, and somehow it made her feel better.
"We shouldn't have... We can't let it happen again." she stammered.
"Why?" Again the question was devoid of implication.
"Because it isn't right... I mean... well you being my employer and all. I'm not a ..."
He stood and carried his coffee cup to the sink, pouring out the remains. "I pay you to take care of the house while I'm out working. I guess that makes me your employer." He carefully placed the cup in the sink and ran water into it. "But what we do with our time after work is strictly between the two of us." He lifted his head and met her gaze. "If you don't want to sleep with me, I don't want you to feel obligated to do so to keep your job."
She caught her breath. "Oh, no. It isn't that at all. It's just that... well, it isn't right for two people who aren't..." She stopped. Would he think she was pressuring him into marriage now?
He quirked a brow. "Aren't married?" At her nod he shrugged. "Isn't it a little late to start worrying about that sort of thing?"
"I should have thought about it before, but it's never too late to stop doing something you know is wrong."
He walked across the kitchen and paused at the door. "People should get married because they want to spend the rest of their days together, not because they've already shared a few nights." He lifted his hat from the peg and clamped it on his head and then paused, one hand on the door while he studied her face. Finally he shrugged.
"I'll see you tonight."
She stared at the door after he left. He was making it plain enough. He wasn't interested in marriage and he didn't want her trying to manipulate him into it. At least now she knew where they stood. Tears flooded her eyes and spilled down her cheeks. How could he have been so ardent last night and so thoroughly indifferent this morning? Last night she could have sworn he loved her. Now his only concern was that she had his meal ready when he came home for supper. What a fool she had been. Hadn't Mary warned her? But no, she had been so certain, so naive. Not once, but twice. There would be no third time. Of course, hadn't she said that twice already? The smartest thing for her to do was to pack up and leave. This was a no-win situation.
But instead of packing, she cleaned the house and went for a ride. Bad as the situation was, she still couldn't stand the thought of leaving the ranch. And for what? At least while she was here she could save some money. If she went back to the diner she would be lonely and broke. None of this would have happened if they hadn't been alone in the house. Maybe she could do something about that and help Cade make some money at the same time. She had been reluctant to mention her idea before, but now she was desperate enough to risk his anger.
So, that evening at supper she broached the subject.
"You know Cade; you could make a profit off this ranch other ways than running cattle."
He jerked his head up and regarded her for a moment with a sour expression.
She hesitated, intimidated by his obvious displeasure. But too much was at stake, so she pushed on.
"Have you ever thought of turning this place into a dude ranch? You have the extra bedrooms and..."
"The last thing I want is a half-dozen little brats running around here tearing things up. Adults are bad enough, but when they bring their unruly offspring, it's unbearable." He scowled at her. "Besides, I like coming home to a quiet house every evening."
She picked at her food and finally pushed it away. That left only one thing. She had to leave - the sooner the better. She carried her plate to the sink. Scraping the left-overs into a bowl, she ran water to wash the dishes. Cade brought his dishes to the sink and paused gazing down at her, but she refused to look up.
His hands touched her waist for a moment. He slipped his arms around her from behind and drew her back against his chest.
"Cindy," he whispered, kissing her neck in a way that made her heart dance with excitement.
She stiffened. "Stop it, Cade. Nothing is going to happen - not tonight or any other night."
He dropped his hands and stepped away, frowning down at her. "If it's that important to you, I guess we could try a few guests. But if this is because you're lonely ..."
"I'm not lonely. And having guests here won't make me crawl into bed with you again, either. I wouldn't use you that way."
"I never said…"
"You never said a lot of things," she cut him off shortly.
"You're angry with me again."
"I'm not angry with you. I'm angry with me. I don't know how I got into this situation in the first place. I always swore I'd never..." He didn't want to hear about her moral ethics - especially since she had thrown them all to the dogs anyway. Face it. She was having an affair with her boss. How much lower could she sink? Loving him was no excuse, because even knowing he didn't love her, she still couldn't find the decency to leave. How could she blame him when she had offered no resistance?
He turned to the stove, pouring himself another cup of coffee and leaned against the counter, watching her thoughtfully as he sipped the coffee. Finally he cleared his throat.
"What would it take to make you happy, Cindy? I have a feeling you're getting ready to fly the coop. If you want me to leave you alone, it's done. I never meant to push myself on you in the first place. I thought you were..." He paused, as if searching for a tasteful word.
"Eager? Easy?" She supplied bitterly as she rinsed the last dish and put it into the rack.
"There you go, putting words in my mouth again. I didn't mean that at all." He swirled the coffee in his cup and shifted uncomfortably. "But you did seem to enjoy it."
She jerked the plug out of the sink and dried her hands. "I did." She looked him straight in the eye. "Does that shock you?" She threw the towel on the counter. "Well, it shocks me." She swung around and left the kitchen. It was time to pack. After breakfast tomorrow she would leave. He managed without a housekeeper before she came, and he could get along fine now. Maybe a housekeeper wasn't what he had planned on hiring in the first place.